Chris Alliman MD: Alright, this is Dr. Alan
Chris Alliman MD: Rapid exit access for New Mexico 9am by patient will be Ryan Morrow Date of Birth is June 15 1979
Chris Alliman MD: Hello Ryan's
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir. How are you
Chris Alliman MD: Good. How are you today.
Ryan Morrow: I'm doing great, thank you.
Chris Alliman MD: Good. It's good to see you. I'm Dr. Solomon.
Ryan Morrow: Thank you, Dr. Solomon.
Chris Alliman MD: Absolutely. So, looks like we're taking talking about Suboxone today. Are you at a stable point are you stopped.
Ryan Morrow: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, good. Just want to make sure we don't cause you an accident.
Chris Alliman MD: I was looking back, and it looked like you've been in our program previously, is that correct
Ryan Morrow: Yes, I was.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, doesn't doesn't look like it went very long. It was just for a brief amount of time.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I was for just a few months during the summer.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. Alright, sounds good. So I don't. I didn't go into the information very deeply. So I don't know what's happening for you or what your history is so give me some of the background. Tell me about why you want to be on Suboxone or if you're on Suboxone what the story is
Ryan Morrow: Um, yeah. So I was on it for pretty much the whole summer and I decided that I wanted to try to
Ryan Morrow: To stop taking it and
Ryan Morrow: See how I would do without it but
Ryan Morrow: I
Ryan Morrow: Didn't do. Well, I, I just, I feel like I need to be on it for a longer period of time for my sobriety. I think it would be best.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, so take me back a ways. Why did you need to get on Suboxone initially, when was that. How did things get started.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I, I started using heroin, about a year and a half ago.
Ryan Morrow: Okay, and it completely took everything away from me.
Ryan Morrow: And that's why I
Ryan Morrow: What made me initially contact Briar hill.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. How did you get into heroin. What was what brought you into it.
Ryan Morrow: I'm back in 2003 I started using hydrocodone
Ryan Morrow: Okay and and that
Ryan Morrow: Kind of snowball effect that I started snorting oxy cotton back in 2006 and that's when I became an addict and
Ryan Morrow: Then
Ryan Morrow: I when I turned 30 I started using heroin and so for the past 10 years. It's basically been often on cycle of heroin abuse.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. Gotcha. Why did you initially get on to the hydrocodone owns
Ryan Morrow: Um, you know I I partied in college and you know I experimented with different drugs, but never really had a problem as far as addition. It was always just the recreational thing.
Ryan Morrow: And the first time I took I coding it just did something to me that I was like, wow, you know, I really like this.
Ryan Morrow: And so for about six years. I use it recreationally I never got hooked on it because I didn't have access to it, I guess. But whenever I started doing oxy cotton, that's when I really, really became addicted.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, so I'm hearing. Basically, it was more just the party situation. It wasn't necessarily an injury that you were getting prescribed these for
Ryan Morrow: Oh well. Well, and also the I have to go along with that.
Ryan Morrow: I had a truck accident when I was 13 and a message on my back. And then I have some dirt bike accident and I was prescribed, you know, mad for those as well. And so that didn't help either.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah so little bit of influence. They're not the main one from what I'm hearing probably a little bit
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Some people. Some people get into it because of depression or anxiety. Were you self medicating depression or anxiety with these also
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, anxiety, yeah I suffer from anxiety pretty bad.
Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And how often were you using heroin. When you did get to that point.
Ryan Morrow: For the past year and a half.
Ryan Morrow: Up until I started doing a bright heart.
Ryan Morrow: By heart. It was an everyday habit I was using about a gram a day.
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And when you got started with bright heart. How much Suboxone were you taken
Ryan Morrow: To task tablets today milligram tablets. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And it was the tablets, not the film's
Ryan Morrow: Now, actually it was the film's. I'm sorry. I actually
Ryan Morrow: Like
Ryan Morrow: Tablets better but
Chris Alliman MD: And that's fine. I mean, we don't really have an issue in terms of which one of the like the tablets better and that's easier to work with. For you, that's totally
Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: So two of them a day.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. Were you on Suboxone before that had you tried it when it wasn't prescribed or in other situations.
Ryan Morrow: Um, yeah. Whenever I turned 30 whenever I first tried heroin.
Ryan Morrow: I didn't have access to it at that time to heroin.
Ryan Morrow: And so I did go see a Suboxone doctor and Albuquerque, New Mexico, and I was on it for for a while. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: So you weren't familiar with it. It wasn't something new.
Ryan Morrow: Right. All right.
Chris Alliman MD: Um,
Chris Alliman MD: Why, why were you wanting or why have you been wanting to get off of the short acting opiates like Carolyn.
Chris Alliman MD: What's your motivation.
Ryan Morrow: Because it destroyed my life, my relationships and it took everything away from me and I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired and I want to change my life.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, that's, I don't ever. I don't
Ryan Morrow: I don't ever want to have to go back to that drug again.
Chris Alliman MD: Gotcha, gotcha. Did you ever go through rehab.
Ryan Morrow: Yes sir, I did.
Ryan Morrow: Okay, yeah.
Ryan Morrow: When I went
Ryan Morrow: I went to a 15 month program and graduated called teen challenge.
Uh huh.
Chris Alliman MD: When was that
Ryan Morrow: And then 2006 King
Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Have you ever overdosed or had to go to the emergency room hospitalized because of this stuff.
Ryan Morrow: Um, I've, I've overdose on heroin, but I've never had to have our can or anything. I just, they brought me back by dawn water on me and stuff. So yeah, I have overdose. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: That's kind of terrifying.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Do the medical primary care doctor
Ryan Morrow: I'm not. Yeah, I guess, Dr. Torres and Clovis, New Mexico.
Ryan Morrow: Health Center. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Good. Are you in Clovis also
Ryan Morrow: I'm working in Lubbock right now but I live in Clovis
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. Sounds good. Just helps give a mental picture of where folks are at, um, do you have any medical problems that you've been diagnosed with
Ryan Morrow: No, sir. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Do you know your hepatitis C status.
Ryan Morrow: Negative. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Good any allergies to medications.
Ryan Morrow: No, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: Are you taking any medications currently
Ryan Morrow: Seroquel
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: How much Seroquel are you taking
Ryan Morrow: Take 150 milligrams of not
Ryan Morrow: Only sleep. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And are you seeing a psychiatrist.
Ryan Morrow: Now I'm, I'm, I go to a meetings and I go to Celebrate Recovery. But as far as counseling. I was just going to do the group meetings through zoom with the all and then try to find psychiatrists out here in Lubbock that I can meet with and do kind of an outpatient program.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, um, you're familiar with our program and it looked like you had met with Jessica at one point as a therapist. Does that sound right.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir. Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Is there. So usually we have people connected with our therapist if they don't already have a therapist outside of the program. Um, what are your thoughts on that.
Ryan Morrow: I'm totally for it. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Good. So we'll talk about that more as we get to the end here. Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: So what happened after the summer when you tried to get off the Suboxone
Ryan Morrow: I relapse.
Okay.
Ryan Morrow: So, so that kind of told me that mind to be on it for longer.
Ryan Morrow: Because it was really working well for me. I was doing really good
Ryan Morrow: And then I tried to stop and one thing led to another and I ended up realizing
Chris Alliman MD: Fair enough. When was your, what did you relapse on heroin, I assume.
Ryan Morrow: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. When was your last heroin use
Ryan Morrow: It's been about three months ago. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: How have you been dealing with it over these three months.
Ryan Morrow: Um,
Ryan Morrow: Let's see.
Ryan Morrow: I mean just working, going to the gym, going to church.
Ryan Morrow: I went to a
Ryan Morrow: Detox rehab and that's called the turning point.
Ryan Morrow: Okay and and they detox me and put me on Suboxone for a couple of days and taper me off.
Ryan Morrow: But since then, I've been. I've been clean but like I still have that that that kind of urge and I feel like I'm still kind of withdrawing and
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay so still some of the cravings cravings. It's there.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah yeah
Chris Alliman MD: Fair enough.
Chris Alliman MD: Um,
Chris Alliman MD: Let's see here.
Chris Alliman MD: What is your living situation.
Currently,
Ryan Morrow: I have an apartment.
Chris Alliman MD: You have a roommate or anybody else at the apartment.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I have a girl. It's a roommate of mine. She's a friend.
Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And any addiction issues there that you know of
Ryan Morrow: Oh, now she's a healthcare worker for the police station mental mental health and and stuff. She's on the kind of the same field that
Ryan Morrow: Deals with people like me.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. Gotcha.
That's got to be an interesting
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, it is. It's very unique and kind of
Ryan Morrow: I don't know what the word ironic.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, yeah, I would think that's, that's pretty much it. I'm
Chris Alliman MD: All right, and then marital status.
Single divorced
Ryan Morrow: Single
Chris Alliman MD: Any kids.
Ryan Morrow: I have two older kids that are 23 and 24 okay
Chris Alliman MD: Are there any young kids like around five ish that come over
Chris Alliman MD: And over at your place.
Ryan Morrow: No, sir. Not at all. Good.
Chris Alliman MD: The reason I asked is, I'm sure you're aware, is that the residue from the Suboxone is enough to cause kids to stop breathing.
Ryan Morrow: So yes, I'm sure. Yeah.
Chris Alliman MD: Make sure we're good on that and you're working it sounds like
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir. I work
Good.
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: And who's your, your support, who helps you you know who you talked to who do you work things out with
Chris Alliman MD: Do I think I lost you.
Chris Alliman MD: You still there, Ryan.
Ryan Morrow: Sorry about that.
Chris Alliman MD: That's all right. Ryan, I imagine that you're out in the kind of distant area.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah. All right.
Chris Alliman MD: Let's continue through this
Chris Alliman MD: Um, I was asking you, who your support is who helps you out.
Ryan Morrow: I'm I'm my girlfriend. Wow. I am a mom, dad,
Ryan Morrow: Sister, I have a pretty good support system.
Chris Alliman MD: Good, glad to hear that. Is there any family history of addiction.
Ryan Morrow: To be honest with you know there's Nah, man.
Ryan Morrow: You know, like
Ryan Morrow: Party to in college I drank I did cocaine, ecstasy and there was never like a time where I felt like I needed to have it woke up like feeling for it.
Ryan Morrow: But whenever I did painkillers. Um, it just snowball effect in whenever I got addicted to it and was sick. That's when the addiction started, which was in 2007 gotcha, gotcha. So
Chris Alliman MD: You know, standing up.
Ryan Morrow: That disease, I guess.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, doesn't sound like it random the family too much, but this stuff looks people in pretty easily. So, yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: Any outstanding legal issues for you.
Ryan Morrow: Now, sir,
Chris Alliman MD: Good and a little bit of an awkward question but were you abused as a child.
Chris Alliman MD: And go ask you again, there
Ryan Morrow: Oh, I'm very sorry I had my phone plugged in. And I think the battery is getting too hot, so I unplugged it
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. All right. Well, you're back. That's good.
Ryan Morrow: So it shouldn't have any more problems.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, sounds good. Um,
Chris Alliman MD: I was asking if there was a childhood history of abuse.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, my father verbally.
Ryan Morrow: And physically
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: So we know that those can certainly play into addiction issues in some way also. So, good things to
Chris Alliman MD: Explore during therapy.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright, so I'm going to run through a list of yes or no questions. I'm thinking about when you've been kind of during the time that you were using either the Narc the opiates, or the heroin. Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: If you don't understand them. I can certainly repeat them.
Chris Alliman MD: So we're the opiates often taken in larger amounts or over a longer period of time than initially intended
Ryan Morrow: Yes, definitely.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay. Was there a persistent desire or unsuccessful effort to
Chris Alliman MD: Cut down or control to use
Ryan Morrow: I yeah there was okay.
Chris Alliman MD: Did you have to spend a great deal of time trying to get the opiates to use them.
Chris Alliman MD: Or to recover from them.
Chris Alliman MD: Did you get that one, Ryan.
Chris Alliman MD: you're muted now.
Chris Alliman MD: you're muted, Ryan. If you can unmute yourself.
Chris Alliman MD: So Ryan you're muted. So I can't hear anything. You're saying I'm trying to unmute you. But the computer won't let me unmute you. So if you can do that yourself. That would be good.
Ryan Morrow: Hey, well I turn the air conditioner on and put it up against the faith.
Ryan Morrow: I apologize.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, good. Good, glad you're working through that. Alright. So continuing on. Did you have to spend a great deal of time trying to get the opiates use them or recover from their effects.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: Was there cravings, or a strong desire to use the opiates.
Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: Did they use
Chris Alliman MD: cause failure to fulfill roles at work at school or at home. Yes, sir. And did you continue to use despite there being social or interpersonal relationship problems worsened by the opiates.
Chris Alliman MD: Yes. And did you have to give up important social, occupational or recreational activities because of the opiates.
Chris Alliman MD: Did you continue to use in situations that were physically had hazardous like driving. Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: And did you continue to use despite knowing that they could cause physical or psychological problems.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: All right.
Chris Alliman MD: Right.
Chris Alliman MD: So we're going to run through a list of questions here.
Chris Alliman MD: We've got a just kind of symptoms again yes or no questions, thinking about the last two weeks if you've had any of these symptoms over the last two weeks.
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. Any fevers over the last two weeks.
Chris Alliman MD: No, sir, night sweats.
Chris Alliman MD: No chills no cold intolerance.
Chris Alliman MD: Vision changes.
Ryan Morrow: No, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: any difficulty hearing
Chris Alliman MD: No nasal congestion.
Ryan Morrow: No.
Chris Alliman MD: bloody noses know lip sores. No, sir, neck pain.
Chris Alliman MD: Shortness of breath.
Ryan Morrow: Lesser
Chris Alliman MD: COUGH know
Chris Alliman MD: Chest pain.
Chris Alliman MD: Stomach pain.
Chris Alliman MD: No pain with urination.
No.
Chris Alliman MD: Hair changes.
Ryan Morrow: Her
Chris Alliman MD: Skin changes.
Chris Alliman MD: No joint pains.
No.
Chris Alliman MD: Back pains no headaches.
Chris Alliman MD: Weakness
Chris Alliman MD: No mood changes.
Chris Alliman MD: No depression.
Chris Alliman MD: Anxiety.
Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: sleep problems.
Chris Alliman MD: Hallucinations
Chris Alliman MD: No suicidal thoughts.
Ryan Morrow: No. All right.
Very good.
Chris Alliman MD: How tall are you,
Ryan Morrow: Five eight
Chris Alliman MD: How much do you weigh
Chris Alliman MD: 180. Okay. Do you know how to check your pulse.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, I do.
Chris Alliman MD: Excellent. I'm going to time six seconds. I'll give you a start and stop.
Chris Alliman MD: When you're ready, and then at the end of that you tell me how many posters, you got. Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Let me find it.
Chris Alliman MD: Yep. You tell me when you're ready.
Ryan Morrow: Okay, I'm ready.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. Ready, set, go.
Chris Alliman MD: Stop. Would you get
Ryan Morrow: A
Chris Alliman MD: Eight. Alright, so we take that times 10 and that gives us 80 beats in a minute.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, little hard to do in the car here for the next part, but I'm like for you to try it on camera push on your stomach.
Ryan Morrow: As best you can.
Chris Alliman MD: As as best you can. You don't have to get out of the car.
Chris Alliman MD: Yet I just need to know if there's any pain as you push all over your stomach.
Ryan Morrow: No, sir.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, very good.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, Ryan. So now we need to figure out the medication and your group and all of that kind of stuff, like you did before.
Ryan Morrow: Okay, great.
Chris Alliman MD: So I've got a few groups that I've run, which would be easiest to connect with since I know you at this point and the options are, have a Monday 9am a Wednesday 7:30pm or a Friday 12 noon or Friday 1:30pm
Ryan Morrow: Wednesday 7:30pm sounds great.
Excellent.
Chris Alliman MD: All right, so you've been through this process before so you know how it works. I see you writing it down and that's great. Put reminders in your phone be there because that's when medication gets refilled.
Chris Alliman MD: When
Ryan Morrow: 7:30pm meeting.
Chris Alliman MD: 7:30pm meeting check in about 20 to 30 minutes ahead of time, it seems to be a fairly busy time for groups.
Chris Alliman MD: Surprisingly, so just make sure that you're not checking in, you know, five minutes before it's supposed to start because you won't get in in time.
Chris Alliman MD: So the therapists during that group is Dominique and
Chris Alliman MD: She's actually not taking any new clients on right now.
Ryan Morrow: Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: So we need to get you. But she'll be helping out with the groups, um,
Chris Alliman MD: But we need to get you connected then with someone as a therapist.
Chris Alliman MD: It looked like you had seen Jessica at one point was that right
Ryan Morrow: Yes.
Chris Alliman MD: How did that go, do you want to reconnect with her.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, sure.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay, so I'll put a message out to her and see if we can get that
Chris Alliman MD: Taken care of
Chris Alliman MD: I don't know if you'll have to do that initial bio psychosocial where they hit you with a bunch of questions at the beginning.
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, I'm not sure where I don't know. So I'm going to leave that up to her to
Ryan Morrow: Figure out whole, I will not. But if I do, I do.
Chris Alliman MD: You do you do things kind of the way it is.
Now,
Chris Alliman MD: This next Wednesday is going to be kind of a shorter process probably just, I'm sorry, Dominique won't be there.
Chris Alliman MD: She has
Chris Alliman MD: Out for for next week. But she'll be back the week after. I'm still doing some stuff in the group and we still do the medical check in. It just might be a little more abbreviated than normal.
Ryan Morrow: But
Chris Alliman MD: I do want you to get there. Okay.
Chris Alliman MD: So I'm going to send in the sub the tablets for you.
Chris Alliman MD: That q&a tablets. Looks like you're getting the trade name Suboxone
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
You're right.
Chris Alliman MD: So do the two tablets a day and I'll get that started, you'll be able to pick it up today.
Ryan Morrow: Okay, great.
Chris Alliman MD: Okay so there'll be enough for today and it'll actually go through Thursday, because our appointment or our meeting on Wednesday is so late in the evening and not everybody has a 24 hour pharmacy.
Chris Alliman MD: I don't want to
Chris Alliman MD: Dress in about it for Thursday. So the medication will go for today through Thursday but I expect that you will be there on Wednesday.
Ryan Morrow: I will be there.
Chris Alliman MD: Excellent. That sounds good. I've got your email, as Ryan more 1979 at GMAIL. COM
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir. Morrow no more morrow.
Chris Alliman MD: And I'm going to send you an email that will have all this information in it for checking in. Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Perfect. So how long do you think it would be before I guess you got to send it to you have Walmart down as my pharmacy and Clovis
Chris Alliman MD: Yeah, Walmart on print Street.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, that's perfect.
Chris Alliman MD: Good, yeah, I'm going to do that. Like right here within the next 10 minutes
Ryan Morrow: Okay, thank you so much.
Chris Alliman MD: Absolutely, absolutely. Ryan, I'm glad you're back with us. I'm glad you made that choice. And I think this will work out really well.
Ryan Morrow: Yes, sir. I really like you a lot. Thank you very much.
Chris Alliman MD: Absolutely. Any other questions that you have, before I let you go.
Ryan Morrow: No, sir, that should be, what was your name again.
Chris Alliman MD: Dr. Solomon.
Chris Alliman MD: Like Solomon, but all women.
Ryan Morrow: Right. Gotcha.
Chris Alliman MD: And it'll be in the email that I send you to you'll have it.
Ryan Morrow: There also apple. Perfect, I'll check with Walmart here in a couple hours.
Chris Alliman MD: That sounds good. All right. Ryan will catch you later. Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
Chris Alliman MD: You bet. Bye. Bye. Thanks.
Bye.
Chris Alliman MD: Alright so finishing up on Ryan had a little difficulty with the connections there.
Chris Alliman MD: Second Person patient with substance abuse and some anxiety symptoms patients level of stresses moderate and includes economic relationship problems relationship stressors are severe
Chris Alliman MD: Patient has a strong sense of self and a good object relations appears abstract on exam patient reports history of psychiatric treatment but denies any hospitalizations.
Chris Alliman MD: HDD status was negative should have all the review of systems and his vitals and physical exam assessment plan will do a
Chris Alliman MD: Continuation plan patient does not need it induction will be the Suboxone trade name eight dash to two tablets for 16 milligrams and the 24 hour period patient will join the Wednesday 7:30pm group and we'll try to establish with Jessica as a as his therapist.
Chris Alliman MD: Narc can will be sent in and
Chris Alliman MD: I think we're good. Oh PMT was reviewed show three prescribers one pharmacy last Phil was November 1 2019 for 30 days of medication.
Chris Alliman MD: All right. Thank you much,